---
page_title: "hpegl_metal_project Resource - terraform-provider-hpegl"
subcategory: "metal"
description: |-
  Provides Project resource. This allows creation, deletion and update of Metal projects.
---
# hpegl_metal_project (Resource)

Provides Project resource. This allows creation, deletion and update of Metal projects.

## Example Usage

```terraform
// (C) Copyright 2020-2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

resource "hpegl_metal_project" "project" {
  name = "blob"
  profile {
    company             = "ACME"
    address             = "Area51"
    email               = "acme@intergalactic.universe"
    phone_number        = "+112 234 1245 3245"
    project_description = "Primitive Life"
    project_name        = "Umbrella Corporation"
  }
  limits {
    hosts            = 5
    volumes          = 10
    volume_capacity  = 300
    private_networks = 20
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `limits` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) Resource limits applied to this team. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--limits))
- `name` (String) A friendly name of the project.
- `profile` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) Team profile. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--profile))

### Optional

- `permitted_images` (Set of String) List of permitted OS service images
- `sites` (Set of String) List of Permitted Site IDs
- `volume_replication_enabled` (Boolean) Volume replication is enabled for the project if set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--limits"></a>
### Nested Schema for `limits`

Optional:

- `hosts` (Number) Maximum number of host allowed in the team.
- `instance_types` (Map of Number) Map of instance type ID to maximum number of hosts that can be created with that instance type
- `private_networks` (Number) Maximum number of private networks allowed in the team.
- `volume_capacity` (Number) Total allowable volume capacity (GiB) allowed in the team.
- `volumes` (Number) Maximum number of volumes allowed in the team.


<a id="nestedblock--profile"></a>
### Nested Schema for `profile`

Required:

- `email` (String) Email address.
- `project_name` (String) A friendly name of the team.

Optional:

- `address` (String) The company address with the team.
- `company` (String) The company associated with the team.
- `phone_number` (String) Phine number.
- `project_description` (String) A friendly description of the team.

Read-Only:

- `email_verified` (Boolean) Email address has been validated.
- `phone_number_verified` (Boolean) Phine number has been validated.


