---
page_title: "hpegl_metal_volume Resource - terraform-provider-hpegl"
subcategory: "metal"
description: |-
  Provides Volume resource. This allows creation, deletion and update of Metal volumes.
---
# hpegl_metal_volume (Resource)

Provides Volume resource. This allows creation, deletion and update of Metal volumes.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# (C) Copyright 2020-2023 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

provider "hpegl" {
  metal {
    gl_token = false
  }
}

variable "location" {
  default = "USA:Central:AFCDCC1"
}

resource "hpegl_metal_volume" "test_vols" {
  count             = 1
  name              = "vol-${count.index}"
  size              = 20
  shareable         = true
  flavor            = "Fast"
  storage_pool      = "Storage_Pool_NVMe"
  location          = var.location
  volume_collection = "AustinCollection"
  description       = "Terraformed volume"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `flavor` (String) The flavor of the volume to be created.
- `location` (String) Location of the volume country:region:data-center.
- `name` (String) A friendly name of the volume.
- `size` (Number) The minimum size of the volume specified in units of GBytes.

### Optional

- `description` (String) A wordy description of the volume and purpose.
- `labels` (Map of String) The volume labels as (name, value) pairs.
- `shareable` (Boolean) The volume can be shared by multiple hosts if set.
- `storage_pool` (String) The storage pool of the volume to be created.
- `volume_collection` (String) The volume collection of the volume to be created.
- `volume_collection_id` (String) The volume collection ID of the volume to be created.

### Read-Only

- `active_site` (String) The site where the remote copy role for the volume is Primary at the time of most recent import.
- `created_site` (String) The site where the volume was originally created.
- `flavor_id` (String) The flavor of the volume to be created.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `location_id` (String) LocationID.
- `replication_enabled` (Boolean) Indicates whether replication is enabled for this volume.
- `size_in_use` (Number) The amount of the volume currently used as reported by the array in GBytes.
- `state` (String) The volume provisioning state.
- `status` (String) The volume provisioning status.
- `storage_pool_id` (String) The storage pool of the volume to be created.
- `unmanaged` (Boolean) Indicates whether the volume is a native Metal created one or an external one.
- `wwn` (String) The volume serial number.


